# Installation

1. Download and install [Python 3.12.10](https://www.python.org/downloads/release/python-31210/)
   or a higher version of Python 3.12.
2. Open terminal in the root directory of this repository.
3. Initialize virtual environment in directory `.venv` and activate it according to the
   [tutorial](https://docs.python.org/3/library/venv.html).
4. Install and update necessary packages:
   1. Run `python -m pip install -U pip setuptools wheel` to update building packages.
   2. Run `python -m pip install pip-tools~=7.4.1` to install
      [pip-tools](https://github.com/jazzband/pip-tools/).
   3. Install PyTorch according to the [guide](https://pytorch.org/get-started/locally).
   4. Run `python -m piptools compile -U --strip-extras` to generate file `requirements.txt`.
   5. Run `python -m pip install -r requirements.txt --no-deps` to install all necessary packages.
   6. Run `playwright install chromium` to install Chromium browser for playwright.
5. Create empty file `questions.json` and fill it with `{}`.
6. Copy `config-template.toml` as `config.toml` and fill it.

# Usage

## Retrieving questions from Laba.AI

Configure section `scanner` in `config.toml`,
start scanning Laba.AI via running `python scan.py` and follow log instructions.

Once script is completed, all recorded questions will be inside file
`questions.json` per category, subcategory, topic and question level.

## Exporting questions to CSV

Configure section `analyzer` in `config.toml`
and start analyzing gathered questions via running `python analyze.py`.

Once script is completed, questions from `questions.json`
will be inside the configured CSV file.
Columns inside the CSV file are in the following order:
category, subcategory, topic, level, question and duplication flag.
Some columns can be omitted according to the configuration.
Duplication flag indicates
whether the question in a row duplicates another question of the same difficulty and topic.

## Querying questions with DeepSeek

Configure section `querier` in `config.toml`
and start querying analyzed questions via running `python query.py`.

The resulting file has the same structure as the input file
with a new column at the end which contains the answers generated by DeepSeek.
Questions marked as duplicate are not queried, and hence, have the empty string as answer.

One can also specify a CSV file with the predefined answers.
This file must have the same columns in the same order as the input file
and an additional column at the end containing answers.
Before the querier is started, this file is fully read
to create a mapping between listed questions and answers.
Empty answers are ignored;
the mapping uses all columns before duplication flag as key.
Once querier is started,
if the mapping contains a question from the input file,
then the predefined answer is used, and DeepSeek is not queried.

If querier fails, the output file is saved with the answers obtained so far.
One can specify the output file also as a file with the predefined answers
to resume querying from the point of failure.

### System prompts for DeepSeek

System prompts are simple text files, but support additional formatting.
Once system prompts is read, all line breaks are replaced with spaces,
then all consecutive spaces are replaced with a single space.

In order to add line breaks to the final system prompt, separate paragraphs with symbol `|`.
For example:

```
This is the first paragraph of   the system prompt.
It contains two sentences.  
|
|
This is the second   paragraph of the system prompt.
It is separated by two line   breaks from the first one.  

|

|

|

This is the third paragraph and it is separated by three line breaks from the second one.
```

These separation lines must contain only one bar and nothing more in order to work correctly.
